docs/api.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: LCP Server API
nav_order: 5
---

# LCP Server API

## Calls from the ebook delivery platform

### Generate a license

Access is protected by HTTP Basic Auth.

You can generate a license via:

POST {LCPServerURL}/licenses/ 

with a payload like: 

```json
{
    "publication_id": "c6abe80a-1681-4694-b6f4-80c165213780",
    "user_id": "552a6ffb-d79a-4ff2-bc66-6ebb08ccc4fe",
    "user_name": "John Doe",
    "user_email": "test@company.com",
    "user_encrypted": ["name","email"],
    "start": "2022-08-22T10:00:00Z",
    "end": "2022-08-30T10:00:00Z",
    "copy": 20000,
    "print": 100,
    "profile": "http://readium.org/lcp/basic-profile",
    "text_hint": "A textual hint for your passphrase.",
    "pass_hash": "FAEB00CA518BEA7CB11A7EF31FB6183B489B1B6EADB792BEC64A03B3F6FF80A8"
}
```

- `publication_id`can be replaced by `alt_id`. In this case, the alternative identifier indicated here must correspond to the file name (without extension) of the publication that was processed by lcpencrypt with the `altid` command argument properly set. 
- `user_name` and `user_email` and `user_encrypted` are optional. `user_encrypted` is the list of user properties that will be encrypted in the LCP license. 
- `copy`, `print`, `start`, `end` are optional constraints. No value set means no constraint. 
- `profile`is optional. Allowed values are provided by EDRLab on request. A default value should be set in the LCP Server configuration.  

The other parameters are mandatory. 

About `pass_hash`: this is the user passphrase hashed using SHA256 and serialized as an hex-encoding string. For instance, the passphrase "123 456" becomes "4981AA0A50D563040519E9032B5D74367B1D129E239A1BA82667A57333866494" when hashed ([try with this online tool for testing](https://xorbin.com/tools/sha256-hash-calculator)). 

The publication identified by `publication_id` must be present in the server when a license is generated. 

In case of success the server returns a 201 code. 
The returned payload is the newly generated license. 

### Fetch a fresh license

Access is protected by HTTP Basic Auth.

You can fetch a fresh license via:

POST {LCPServerURL}/licenses/{licenseID}

with a payload like: 

```json
{
    "user_id": "552a6ffb-d79a-4ff2-bc66-6ebb08ccc4fe",
    "user_name": "John Doe",
    "user_email": "test@company.com",
    "user_encrypted": ["name","email"],
    "profile": "http://readium.org/lcp/basic-profile",
    "text_hint": "A textual hint for your passphrase.",
    "pass_hash": "FAEB00CA518BEA7CB11A7EF31FB6183B489B1B6EADB792BEC64A03B3F6FF80A8"
}
```

- `profile`, `user_name` and `user_email` and `user_encrypted` are optional. They should be present if they were set in the license generation request.  

The License Server does not store user information. This is why such information, including the textual hint and passphrase, must be repeated each time a fresh license is requested. 

## Other calls

### CRUD on a publication

One can add a publication to the server via:

POST {LCPServerURL}/publications/ 

with a payload like:

```json
{
    "uuid": "c6abe80a-1681-4694-b6f4-80c165213781",
    "title": "Voyage au centre de la terre",
    "encryption_key": "ZW5jcnlwdGlvbl9rZXkgeCBlbmNyeXB0aW9uX2tleQ==",
    "href": "https://edrlab.org/f/pub1.epub",
    "content_type": "application/epub+zip",
    "size": 769257,
    "checksum": "edce32ca54c36aa73da9075098fc592fa29ff3e12406d1442544535d99dc1b87" 
}
```

The publication will be identified by its `uuid` value.

You can also:

1. Get a list of publications via:

- GET {LCPServerURL}/publications/, with `page` and `per_page` pagination parameters.
- GET {LCPServerURL}/publications/search/ with a `format` parameter taking as a value: `epub`, `pdf`, `lcpdf`, `lcpa` or `lcpdi`. 

2. Fetch, update or delete (the info relative to) a publication via:

- GET {LCPServerURL}/publications/{publicationID} 
- PUT {LCPServerURL}/publications/{publicationID} (same payload as for a creation)
- DELETE {LCPServerURL}/publications/{publicationID} 

Where {publicationID} is the uuid used for the creation of the publication. 

`href` must be a public URL, accessible from any device on the internet. 

Note: because publications are submitted to a soft delete, the suppression of a publication does not impact the existing 
licenses associated with the publication. But no new license can be generated for a deleted publication. 


### Get a status document

This is a public route. 

Status is implemented as:

GET {LCPServerURL}/status/{licenseID} 

The returned payload is a fresh status document.


### Register / Renew / Return a license

Register, Renew and Return are public routes.

Register is implemented as:

POST {LCPServerURL}/register/{licenseID} 

Renew is implemented as: 

PUT {LCPServerURL}/renew/{licenseID}

Return is implemented as:

PUT {LCPServerURL}/return/{licenseID}

There is no payload associated with these routes, but two query parameters:

* id: a unique device identifier.
* name: a unique device name.

Renew can also take a third optional query parameter:

* end: the requested end date and time for the license, in W3C datetime format (YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssTZD, cf https://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime)  

The returned payload is a fresh status document.


### Revoke a license

Renew is a private route. It is implemented as: 

PUT {LCPServerURL}/revoke/{licenseID}

with no payload.

### CRUD on license information

You can add raw license information to the server via:

POST {LCPServerURL}/licenseinfo/ 

with a payload like:

```json
{
    "uuid": "87ea1655-3973-4df4-983b-37144ed1b482",
    "user_id": "axv6rli8-1681-4694-b6f4-80c165213f56u",
    "publication_id": "c6abe80a-1681-4694-b6f4-80c165213781",
    "provider": "http://test-provider.com",
    "start": "2022-08-22T10:00:00Z",
    "end": "2022-08-30T10:00:00Z",
    "copy": 20000,
    "print": 100,
    "status": "ready"
}
```

The license will be identified by its `uuid` value.

You can also:

1. Get a list of licenses via:

- GET {LCPServerURL}/licenses/, with `page` and `per_page` pagination parameters.
- GET {LCPServerURL}/licenses/search/, with `user` (id), `pub` (id), `status` ("ready" etc.) or `count` query parameter. `count`takes a min:max tuple as value.

2. Fetch, update or delete a license (the info relative to) via:

- GET {LCPServerURL}/licenseinfo/{{LicenseID}} 
- PUT {LCPServerURL}/licenseinfo/{{LicenseID}} (same payload as for a creation)
- DELETE {LCPServerURL}/licenseinfo/{{LicenseID}} 

Where {{LicenseID}} is the uuid used for the creation of the license.

Commit message:

A request for a fresh license can retrun a download link

docs/api.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: LCP Server API
nav_order: 5
---

# LCP Server API

## Calls from the ebook delivery platform

### Generate a license

Access is protected by HTTP Basic Auth.

You can generate a license via:

POST {LCPServerURL}/licenses/ 

with a payload like: 

```json
{
    "publication_id": "c6abe80a-1681-4694-b6f4-80c165213780",
    "user_id": "552a6ffb-d79a-4ff2-bc66-6ebb08ccc4fe",
    "user_name": "John Doe",
    "user_email": "test@company.com",
    "user_encrypted": ["name","email"],
    "start": "2022-08-22T10:00:00Z",
    "end": "2022-08-30T10:00:00Z",
    "copy": 20000,
    "print": 100,
    "profile": "http://readium.org/lcp/basic-profile",
    "text_hint": "A textual hint for your passphrase.",
    "pass_hash": "FAEB00CA518BEA7CB11A7EF31FB6183B489B1B6EADB792BEC64A03B3F6FF80A8"
}
```

- `publication_id`can be replaced by `alt_id`. In this case, the alternative identifier indicated here must correspond to the file name (without extension) of the publication that was processed by lcpencrypt with the `altid` command argument properly set. 
- `user_name` and `user_email` and `user_encrypted` are optional. `user_encrypted` is the list of user properties that will be encrypted in the LCP license. 
- `copy`, `print`, `start`, `end` are optional constraints. No value set means no constraint. 
- `profile`is optional. Allowed values are provided by EDRLab on request. A default value should be set in the LCP Server configuration.  

The other parameters are mandatory. 

About `pass_hash`: this is the user passphrase hashed using SHA256 and serialized as an hex-encoding string. For instance, the passphrase "123 456" becomes "4981AA0A50D563040519E9032B5D74367B1D129E239A1BA82667A57333866494" when hashed ([try with this online tool for testing](https://xorbin.com/tools/sha256-hash-calculator)). 

The publication identified by `publication_id` must be present in the server when a license is generated. 

In case of success the server returns a 201 code. 

The returned payload is by default the newly generated license. If the query parameter `link` is added to the URL with the value `true`, the server returns a download link as a Location header, with an HTTP 303 (See Other) status code.

### Fetch a fresh license

Access is protected by HTTP Basic Auth.

You can fetch a fresh license via:

POST {LCPServerURL}/licenses/{licenseID}

with a payload like: 

```json
{
    "user_id": "552a6ffb-d79a-4ff2-bc66-6ebb08ccc4fe",
    "user_name": "John Doe",
    "user_email": "test@company.com",
    "user_encrypted": ["name","email"],
    "profile": "http://readium.org/lcp/basic-profile",
    "text_hint": "A textual hint for your passphrase.",
    "pass_hash": "FAEB00CA518BEA7CB11A7EF31FB6183B489B1B6EADB792BEC64A03B3F6FF80A8"
}
```

- `profile`, `user_name` and `user_email` and `user_encrypted` are optional. They should be present if they were set in the license generation request.  

The License Server does not store user information. This is why such information, including the textual hint and passphrase, must be repeated each time a fresh license is requested. 


## Other calls

### CRUD on a publication

One can add a publication to the server via:

POST {LCPServerURL}/publications/ 

with a payload like:

```json
{
    "uuid": "c6abe80a-1681-4694-b6f4-80c165213781",
    "title": "Voyage au centre de la terre",
    "encryption_key": "ZW5jcnlwdGlvbl9rZXkgeCBlbmNyeXB0aW9uX2tleQ==",
    "href": "https://edrlab.org/f/pub1.epub",
    "content_type": "application/epub+zip",
    "size": 769257,
    "checksum": "edce32ca54c36aa73da9075098fc592fa29ff3e12406d1442544535d99dc1b87" 
}
```

The publication will be identified by its `uuid` value.

You can also:

1. Get a list of publications via:

- GET {LCPServerURL}/publications/, with `page` and `per_page` pagination parameters.
- GET {LCPServerURL}/publications/search/ with a `format` parameter taking as a value: `epub`, `pdf`, `lcpdf`, `lcpa` or `lcpdi`. 

2. Fetch, update or delete (the info relative to) a publication via:

- GET {LCPServerURL}/publications/{publicationID} 
- PUT {LCPServerURL}/publications/{publicationID} (same payload as for a creation)
- DELETE {LCPServerURL}/publications/{publicationID} 

Where {publicationID} is the uuid used for the creation of the publication. 

`href` must be a public URL, accessible from any device on the internet. 

Note: because publications are submitted to a soft delete, the suppression of a publication does not impact the existing 
licenses associated with the publication. But no new license can be generated for a deleted publication. 


### Get a status document

This is a public route. 

Status is implemented as:

GET {LCPServerURL}/status/{licenseID} 

The returned payload is a fresh status document.


### Register / Renew / Return a license

Register, Renew and Return are public routes.

Register is implemented as:

POST {LCPServerURL}/register/{licenseID} 

Renew is implemented as: 

PUT {LCPServerURL}/renew/{licenseID}

Return is implemented as:

PUT {LCPServerURL}/return/{licenseID}

There is no payload associated with these routes, but two query parameters:

* id: a unique device identifier.
* name: a unique device name.

Renew can also take a third optional query parameter:

* end: the requested end date and time for the license, in W3C datetime format (YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssTZD, cf https://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime)  

The returned payload is a fresh status document.


### Revoke a license

Renew is a private route. It is implemented as: 

PUT {LCPServerURL}/revoke/{licenseID}

with no payload.

### CRUD on license information

You can add raw license information to the server via:

POST {LCPServerURL}/licenseinfo/ 

with a payload like:

```json
{
    "uuid": "87ea1655-3973-4df4-983b-37144ed1b482",
    "user_id": "axv6rli8-1681-4694-b6f4-80c165213f56u",
    "publication_id": "c6abe80a-1681-4694-b6f4-80c165213781",
    "provider": "http://test-provider.com",
    "start": "2022-08-22T10:00:00Z",
    "end": "2022-08-30T10:00:00Z",
    "copy": 20000,
    "print": 100,
    "status": "ready"
}
```

The license will be identified by its `uuid` value.

You can also:

1. Get a list of licenses via:

- GET {LCPServerURL}/licenses/, with `page` and `per_page` pagination parameters.
- GET {LCPServerURL}/licenses/search/, with `user` (id), `pub` (id), `status` ("ready" etc.) or `count` query parameter. `count`takes a min:max tuple as value.

2. Fetch, update or delete a license (the info relative to) via:

- GET {LCPServerURL}/licenseinfo/{{LicenseID}} 
- PUT {LCPServerURL}/licenseinfo/{{LicenseID}} (same payload as for a creation)
- DELETE {LCPServerURL}/licenseinfo/{{LicenseID}} 

Where {{LicenseID}} is the uuid used for the creation of the license.
